Conncetors docs (#725)
camunda-cloud/camunda-cloud-documentation: docs/components/modeler/web-modeler/connectors/index.md

---
id: index
title: Introduction to Connectors
description: Introduction to Connectors in Web Modeler
---

To automate complex [business processes](/components/concepts/processes.md) using Camunda Platform 8, a user has to implement the business logic using the concept of [job workers](/components/concepts/job-workers.md). Creating these job workers requires an initial investment and effort to get started with Camunda Platform 8. At the same time, some use cases require the same business logic to be implemented. A solution to reduce the onboarding time enables fast prototyping and solves everyday use cases in Camunda Platform 8 is the concept of connectors.

> A connector is a dedicated task that fulfills a specific use case and can be realized using configuration without implementing any logic. In the following documentation, you can learn more about how to [use connectors](use-connectors.md) and which connectors are [available out-of-the-box](available-connectors/index.md).

Author: I tried to incorporate this

The concept of a connector consists of two parts, the business logic is implemented as a [job worker](/components/concepts/job-workers.md), and the user interface during modeling is provided using a [element template](/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/element-templates/about-templates.md).

> In Camunda Platform 8 SaaS, the provided connectors are operated by Camunda offered in the scope of the product. In Camunda Platform 8 Self-Managed, the user can employ the same concept of element templates and job workers to provide their connector landscape.

Reviewer: Does this mean the out-of-the-box connectors are not available for Self-Managed? I saw the secret management is through Console, but Console is not available in Self-Managed either.

Author: The out-of-the-box connectors are a SaaS only feature. What I wanted to convey in this sentence is part is that the building blocks are available also in self-managed to build a custom connectors. But I guess I failed in doing so?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided connectors are operated by Camunda and are available for Camunda Platform 8 SaaS users.

In Camunda Platform 8 Self-Managed, users can employ the same concept of element templates and job workers to provide their own connector landscape.
```

With a small tweak, we can make this a little clearer (to me at least). @christinaausley anything you would do differently here?

Reviewer 2: Yes indeed, Connectors are available **only** in SaaS. The Web Modeler is also available **only** in SaaS.
